---
layout: post
title: Learning Attentional Communication for Multi-Agent Cooperation (NIPS 2018)
---

## Introduction
Communication can help multiagents learn to cooperate with each other. However, when the size of agents is large, there may exist some useless information that may impair the learning of cooperation. For this reason, this work proposes an attentional communication model that can filter out the unnecessary shared information for cooperative decision making. Inspired by the recurrent models of visual attention, this work delivers an attention unit that receives encoded local observation and action intention of an agent to determine whether it is needed to cooperate with others in its observable field. In other words, each agent called **initiator**, selects collaborators to form a communication group.

A bidirectional LSTM is used as the communication channel to connect each agent within a communication group. The LSTM unit takes the hidden states (e.g. the encoding of local observation and action intention) and returns **thoughts** that guide agents for coordinated strategies. Unlike CommNet [1] and BiCNet [2] that perform arithmetic mean and weighted mean of hidden states respectively, this LSTM unit selectively outputs critical information for cooperative decision making to lead to the dynamic communication.

This work should be the first work that applies attentional communication sucessfully to the multiagent reinforcement learning.

## Settings
This model is shown to be successful in cooperative environments (e.g. cooperation with a global reward), mixed-cooperative environments (e.g. cooperation with local rewards), and competitive environments (e.g. competition with local rewards) respectively.

All of agents share the parameters of the policy network, the critic network, attention units and the communication channel. Therefore, it can be deployed to the large scale of multiagent system easily.

## Model
First, each agent is assumed to live in a partial observation environment, where each agent $i$ receives a local observation $o_{t}^{i}$ correlated with the state $s_{t}$ at time t. A policy network extracts a hidden layer as **thought** taking the input as local observation, which encodes both of the local observation and the action intention, represented as $h_{t}^{i} = \mu_{I}(o_{t}^{i}; \theta^{\mu})$. Every $T$ time steps, the attentional unit takes the $h_{t}^{i}$ as input and determines whether the communication is necessary. It then, the agent, namely **initiator** selects other agents, called **collaborators**, in its field to form a communication group. This communication group keeps the same in $T$ time steps. The value of $T$ can be tuned as a hyperparameter to determine when and how long to communicate by the attention unit. The communication channel connects each agent of the communication group, takes as input the **thought** of each agent and ouputs the integrated **thought** that guides the agents to generate coordinated actions. The integrated **thought** $\tilde{h}_{t}^{i}$ is merged with $h_{t}^{i}$ and fed into the rest of the policy network. After that, the policy network returns the action $a_{t}^{i} = \mu_{II}(h_{t}^{i}, \tilde{h}_{t}^{i}; \theta^{\mu})$.
